Graph Database Concepts

The Neo4j graph is based on the property graph model.
[https://github.com/opencypher/openCypher/blob/master/docs/property-graph-model.adoc]


Nodes

A node in Neo4j is a node as described in the property graph mode, with lables and properties.
Nodes are often used to represent entities.


Relationships

A relationship with a relationship type and properties.

Relationships between nodes are key feature of graph databases,
as they allow for finding related data. A relationship connects
two nodes, and is guaranteed to have a valid source and target node.

While relationship always have a direction.

A node can have relationships to itself as well.


Properties

Both nodes and relationships may have properties.

Properties are named values where the name is a string.
The supported property values are: 
    Numeric values
    String values
    Boolean Values
    Lists of any of the above values

boolean binary logic value true/false
integer 64-bit integer
float 64bit IEEE floating-pint number
String sequence of Unicode characters infinite


Labels

Labels assign roles or types to nodes.

A label is a named graph construct that is used to group nodes into sets;
all nodes labeled with the same label belongs to the same set.
Many database queries can work with these sets instead of the whole graph,
making queries easier to write and more efficient to execute.

A node may be labeled with any number of labels.

Labels are used when defining constraints and adding indexes for properties.

Label names
Any non-empty Unicode string can be used as a label name.
By convention, labels are written with CamelCase notation.

Labels have a id space of an int, meaning the maximum number of lables
the database can contain is roughly 2 billion.


Traversal

A traversal navigates through a graph to find paths.


Paths

Paths are retrieved from a Cypher query or traversal.


Schema

Neo4j is a schema-optional graph database.

Indexes

Performance is gained by creating indexes, which improve the speed of looking up nodes in the database.

Constraints

Neo4j can help keep your data clean. Constraints allow you to specify the rules for what your data
should look like.

