Property Graph Model

A property graph may be defined in graph theoretical terms as
a directed , vertex-labeled, edge-labeled multigraph with slef-edges,
where edges have their own identiry.

In the property graph, we use the term node to denote a vertex,
and relationship to denote an edge.


Definitions

In a property graph, the following elements may exist:
    
    Entity
        Node
        Relationship

    Path

    Token
        Label
        Relationship type
        Property Key

    Property

Entity

An entiry has a unique, comparable identity which defines whether
or not two entities are equal

An entiry is assigned s set of propertities, each of which are
uniquely identified in the set by their respective property keys.


Node

A node is a basic entity of the graph, with the unique attribute
of being albe to exist in and of itself.

A node may be assigned a set of unique lablels.

A node may have zero or more outgoing relationships.

A node may have zero or more incoming relationships.


Relationship

A relationship is an entiry that encodes a directed connection
between exactly two nodes, the source node and the target node.

An outgoing relationship is a directed relationship from the point
of view of its source node.

An incoming relationship is a directed relationship from the point
of view of its target node.

A relationship is assigned exactly one relationship type.


An incoming relationship is a directed relationship from the point of view of its target node.


Path

A path represents a walk through a property graph and consists of
a sequence of alternating nodes and relationships.

A path always starts and ends at a node.

The smallest possible path contains a single node, and is called an empty path.

A path has lenght, which is an integer greater than or equal to zero,
which is queal to the number of relationship in the path.


Token 

A token is a nonempty string of Unicode characters.


Label

A label is a token that is assigned to nodes noly.


Relationship type

A relationship type is a token that is assigned to relationships only.


Property key

A property key is a token which uniquely identifies an entity's property.


Property

A property is a pair consisting of a property key and a property value.

A property value is an instantiaion of one of Cypher's concrete, scalar types,
or a list of a concrete, scalar type.


Graph attributes

The size of the graph is an integer greater than or equal to zero, and is equal
to the number of nodes in the graph.

