Abstract

Most of the educational robots just provide standard courses and learning resources. Learners would fell bored without a pleasurable interactive experience. With the development of the artificial intelligence technologies (e.g., emotion recognition and natural language processing), we design a novel educational robot, called smart learning partner. It can provide a more intelligent and personalized learning experience to individual learners. Learners can also better known their situation using knowledge tracing technology.


Section I Introduction

We are Advanced Innovation Center for Future Education, Beijing Normal University. Beijing Normal University is one of the most prestigious universities in China, especially in the fields of education and psychology research. Advanced Innovation Center for Future Education at Beijing Normal University is one of the first batch of advanced innovation centers supported by Beijing Municipal Government. The core mission of the center is to promote the transformation of education public services from digital to intellectualized in the Internet era. Based on Big Data and AI, we will deepen the comprehensive reform of education with the idea of Internet+, and build a new mode of public service for intelligent education.
    
Different form the formal education robots that mainly provide standard courses and learning resources. Today's ecudation robot can provide intelligent and personalized learning experience to individual learners. With the developement of the AI techniques, especially natural language processing and emotion recognition, education robot industry significantly grows to satisfy the great demand for schools and families in the last few years.

A variety of educational robots have emerged. Many educational robots has ben widely used in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathemativs) courses[6] to help students learning scientific knowledge and skills.

In this paper, we introduce a novel robot, called smart learning partner (SLP). Different form most education robtos, SLP can provide a more pleasurable interactive experience during the learning process. Specifically, it provides the personalized learner-robot interaction by leveraging the AI technologies, typically including the emotion recognition, convesational agent and knoledge graph.


Section II Integrated Technologies on Robot

For providing a more pleasurable interaction experience and better motivate learners, SLP integrates several AI technologies, such as face recognition, emotion recognition, and personalized knowledge graph.

Learners can enter the SLP robot system through face recognition technology based on the deep learning. With face recognition, user can login to the SLP conveniently and quickly without entering username and password.

SLP can recognize learner's real-time emotion status from learners's facial expression (e.g., happiness, surprise and disgust) through the camera with the image-based multiple deep network learning technology. Using such emotion detection technology, SLP can provide a more appropriate real-time feedback for learners. For example, when a learner keeps showing disgust emotions after watching a video resource, SLP may ask the learner current feelings or directly play the video again.

SLP can provide a personalized knowledge graph for each individual learner. For each subject, SLP can automatically constructed a personalized knowledge graph for each individual learner, according to personal assessment results and the interaction data whit the robot. The system can automatically denotes different knowledge proficiency with different color for each concept on the personalized knowledge graph.


Section III Main Functionalities and Workflow

When entering the SLP robot system, learners can select learning, report viewing or casual chatting.
For learning and report viewing module, learners can select a number of subjects, including mathematics, Chinese, English, history, geography, physics, biology and ideology. At learning module, a personalized knowledge graph will present after learners select a subject. The concept on the knowldge graph denoted different proficien with different color. Learners can select the concept they are not familiar with or recommended by the SLP. For each concept, there are several types of learning resources are available, including micro-lecture videos, quiz question, and teaching handouts on the key concepts of each subject. SLP can also selectively recommend learning resources to learners according to knoledge graph during their learning process. Ai report viewing module, learner can view the learn report after learning or assessment to better known own learning situation. They can find academic performance and competency evaluation results of each subject.

At casual chatting module, user can have an  arbitrary conversation with the SLP. To provide a more interesting and nice interaction experience, a dedicated conversational agent (CA) engine is designed to support casual chatting with learners. The designed CA used reinforcement learning model generate human like response during a conversation.

We will showcase how the robot would guide the learners accomplish a process of learning a concept. The whole process takes about 5 minutes. We need somewhere to put the robot and network to connect the third-part speech services.


Section IV Conclusion

We introduce our SLP educational robot system, which has a more pleasurable interactive with learners. We adopt the latest AI techniques in emotion recognition, CA and knowlege graph. We are currently deploying SLP to local shchools and their students. With the large-scale deployment of SLP, it would bring both research and commercial opportunities.

